Individual Assignments
These are individual assignments. They cannot be done in groups.

Part A Cleaning and EDA (75 points)
Data cleaning

Are there missing values?
Are there inappropraite values?
Remove or impute any bad data.
Answer the following questions for the data in each column:

How is the data distributed?
What are the summary statistics?
Are there anomalies/outliers?
Plot each colmun as appropriate for the data type:

Write a summary of what the plot tells you.
Are any of the columns correlated?

Part B Writing a web scraper (25 points)
Find a public website. You must post your website domain (e.g. amazon.com) on the class piazza and get an OK before using it as every student needs to use a different website.

Website
Collect all of the external links (there must be some on the page of your )
Associate the link with a textual description of it from the website.
Write a function to check whether the link is valid.
Save the external links(urls), textual description, a boolean for valid, and the last vaild datetime check to an excel file.
List of datasets for machine learning research
List of datasets for machine learning research
UC Irvine Machine Learning Repository
Public Data Sets : Amazon Web Services
freebase
Google Public Data Explorer
datahub
data.gov
Data cleaning checklist
Save original data
Identify missing data
Identify placeholder data (e.g. 0's for NA's)
Identify outliers
Check for overall plausibility and errors (e.g., typos, unreasonable ranges)
Identify highly correlated variables
Identify variables with (nearly) no variance
Identify variables with strange names or values
Check variable classes (eg. Characters vs factors)
Remove/transform some variables (maybe your model does not like categorial variables)
Rename some variables or values (if not all data is useful)
Check some overall pattern (statistical/ numerical summaries)
Possibly center/scale variables
Exploratory Data Analysis checklist
Suggest hypotheses about the causes of observed phenomena
Assess assumptions on which statistical inference will be based
Support the selection of appropriate statistical tools and techniques
Provide a basis for further data collection through surveys or experiments
Five methods that are must have:

Five number summaries (mean/median, min, max, q1, q3)
Histograms
Line charts
Box and whisker plots
Pairwise scatterplots (scatterplot matrices)

What values do you see?

What distributions do you see?
What relationships do you see?
What relationships do you think might benefit the prediction problem?
Answer the following questions for the data in each column:
How is the data distributed?
Test distribution assumptions (e.G. Normal distributions or skewed?)
What are the summary statistics?
Are there anomalies/outliers?
Identify useful raw data & transforms (e.g. log(x))
Identify data quality problems
Identify outliers
Identify subsets of interest
Suggest functional relationships
